feat(vpc): add connectivity troubleshooting (#4473)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/vpc/troubleshooting/vpc-pn-routing-connectivity-issues.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: I'm experiencing connectivity or routing issues with my VPC or Private Network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: I am experiencing connectivity or routing issues with my VPC or Private Network
```

  description: Troubleshoot access and connectivity issues with your Scaleway VPC or Private Network. Learn how to resolve common problems and get your network up and running smoothly.
content:

>   h1: I'm experiencing connectivity or routing issues with my VPC or Private Network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: I am experiencing connectivity or routing issues with my VPC or Private Network
```

  paragraph: Troubleshoot access and connectivity issues with your Scaleway VPC or Private Network. Learn how to resolve common problems and get your network up and running smoothly.
tags: vpc private-network access connectivity ssh ip
dates:
  validation: 2025-02-21
  posted: 2025-02-21
categories:
  - network
---

You may have problems with connectivity between resources in a VPC or Private Network, or issues with routing packets.

> This page helps you solve potential errors that related to VPC connectivity and routing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page helps you solve potential errors that are related to VPC connectivity and routing.
```

## I cannot deactivate routing on my VPC

This is standard behavior:

- Once you have activated routing on a VPC, you cannot deactivate it
- You do not have the option to create a new VPC where routing is deactivated

## I cannot route between VPCs/Private Networks in different regions, or different Scaleway Projects.

Currently, routing is only supported between Private Networks in a single VPC. We do not support:

- Routing between two different VPCs
- Routing between Private Networks in different Scaleway Projects, or different regions

Watch out for our VPC Peering solution, planned for the future, which will enable communication between different VPCs.

## I am experiencing issues with Elastic Metal server connectivity to a Private Network

Note that some manual configuration of the network interface is required when attaching Elastic Metal servers to Private Networks. Follow the steps in our [dedicated documentation](/elastic-metal/how-to/use-private-networks/#how-to-configure-the-network-interface-on-your-elastic-metal-server-for-private-networks).

## I am experiencing issues with VM (hosted on Elastic Metal server) connectivity to a Private Network

> Ensure you have correctly attached the VM to the Private Network by specifying the MAC address, and carried out necessary configuration of the network interface for your VM, e.g. [via the Proxmox interface](/tutorials/setup-elastic-metal-proxmox-cluster-with-private-networks/#configuring-the-private-network).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure you have correctly attached the VM to the Private Network by specifying the MAC address, and carried out the necessary configuration of the network interface for your VM, e.g. [via the Proxmox interface](/tutorials/setup-elastic-metal-proxmox-cluster-with-private-networks/#configuring-the-private-network).
```
